A rewrite of the play-by-play I (Warren1001) wrote in Llama's announcements channel for those that could not watch. I believe this to be all the changes worth mentioning. Some other writeups are either missing some information listed here or have had or do have slightly wrong information (not to discredit anyone, but trying to remain true to accurate information). I may be missing information as well or wrong in some cases as well, so feel free to let me know.
# General
- Ladders will be 4 months long.
- The first ladder aims to begin sometime early next year.
- Ladder shared stash will roll over to non-ladder shared stash by non-ladder having 3 new withdraw-only stash tabs available throughout the length of the following ladder. The ladder shared stash will be placed into these withdraw only stash tabs on non-ladder every reset.
  - Any items left in the withdraw tabs for an entire season will likely be deleted.
- Ladder-only content will be available (both by rolling over and by being completely available to use) to non-ladder and singleplayer (may be specific to runewords for singleplayer) once that ladder has concluded. New ladder-only content will be added each ladder.
- Many cooldowns on skills have been adjusted.
- Many skill tooltips have been adjusted to display better information, like duration and "hidden" passives.
- They will be hosting a PTR (public test realm) soon, one for the database changes (server stability), and then another one after for these balance changes, before the official release of these balance changes along with the ladder release. They are currently prioritizing server stability, as they do not want to release the ladder with a bunch of crashes and server issues.
  - PTR will have both normal gameplay and "character templates" at different time periods for the community to be able to test changes.
    - Character templates being level 99 characters with unallocated stats and skills.
  - No date set for any PTR release.
# Classes
## Amazon
- Inner Sight radius increased.
- Slow Missiles improved.
- "Dodge lock" improved.
  - Dodge lock is the term used to describe when an Amazon is being stunlocked by the dodge animations (dodge animations happening back to back to back).
- Impale slows and requires no attack rating.
  - Unknown if this means it works like Ignores Target Defense (the level portion of the formula still matters, 95% maximum chance to hit) or like Smite (no hit-check at all, 100% chance to hit)
- Fend has a faster animation.
- Cooldown reduced (or removed?) for Valkyrie.
- Adjusted scaling for damage and mana cost of some fire and cold bow skills.
  - Freezing Arrow's scaling mana cost reduced.
## Assassin
- Finishing Martial Arts skills consume only one charge-up skill charge, rather than all three.
  - Upon using Phoenix Strike, when using a finishing skill with three charges, the "Chaos Bolt" is cast (the cold AoE explosion) and you are left with two charges. Using another finishing skill immediately would result in the lightning AoE explosion cast and having one charge remaining.
- Lesser used lightning traps, fire traps, and blade traps have had damage and/or synergy improvements.
  - Death Sentry is now an additional synergy to some traps.
## Barbarian
- War Cry scaling at higher level improvements.
- Find Potion and Grim Ward scaling at lower level improvements.
  - Grim Ward might have other changes as well? Not sure.
- Leap animation is faster.
  - Assuming this applies to Leap Attack too.
- Berserk gets a synergy from Battle Orders instead of Shout.
- Pierce has been added to Throwing Mastery.
- Double Throw has additional flat damage per skill level.
- Frenzy now has a synergy from Increased Stamina.
## Druid
- Physical damage scaling for the fire skills improved.
- Arctic Blast does more damage, has better synergies, and better controls.
- Twister synergy improvements.
- Shapeshift forms can cast elemental buffs instead of needing to toggle form to cast.
  - Wasn't specific on what skills this meant.
  - Developers were not sure if Teleport was included in this list.
- Werewolf attack rating scaling improved.
- Fire Claws synergies improved.
- Werebear damage scaling improved.
- Summons no longer have a randomized maximum health.
  - The health of summons will be the same across similar summons, so some summons are not weaker than others.
- Summon Raven changed (unclear as to how).
- Wolf summons damage synergies improved.
- Spirit summons have passive physical damage reduction based on difficulty.
- Spirit of Barbs thorns improved.
- Vine summons scaling improved.
- Summon Spirit Wolf does cold damage on attack.
  - The developer wasn't 100% sure if this was the case.
- No changes planned to change how many of what summons you can have summoned at one time.
## Necromancer
- Summon Skeletal Mage has had their damage increased and the variance of the elements' damages reduced.
  - Cold mage will still do less than fire mage.
  - Poison mage poison length fixed at two seconds.
- Blood and Fire Golem damage scaling improved.
- Iron Golem thorns improved.
- Bone skills have improved synergies.
- Bone Armor damage absorption scaling improved.
- Weaken damage reduction scaling improved.
  - Plans to change other curses in the future, waiting to see how Weaken's change turns out.
- No plans to make summoning your skeleton army easier after joining a game.
## Paladin
- Holy Bolt pierces and has synergy improvements.
- Fist of Heavens' bolts pierce, has a reduced cooldown, and "improved controls".
- Radial damage auras' radial damage improved but do less damage the further the enemy is away.
## Sorceress
- Shiver Armor and Chilling Armor improved.
- Lesser used lightning skills have additional synergies.
  - Static Field and Thunder Storm are synergies to Nova.
- Inferno does more damage, has better synergies, and better controls.
- Blaze synergies improved.
  - Now has an additional effect of Run/Walk Speed buff.
- Frost Nova minor scaling improvements.
- Hydras no longer have a cast delay, but they still have a maximum amount allowed at one time.
# Mercenaries
## Act 1 Mercenaries
- Additional area-of-effect bow skill(s) at higher mercenary levels.
## Act 2 Mercenaries
- All auras can be hired on all difficulties.
## Act 3 Mercenaries
- Base stats improved.
- Better "flavorful utility skills".
  - No information as to what.
## Act 5 Mercenaries
- Can cast Battle Cry.
# Items
## Runewords
- The new runewords have two primary goals: to compliment the mercenary changes and non-A2 mercenaries AND utilize underused runes (like Cham and Zod).
- [Plague](https://diablo-archive.fandom.com/wiki/Plague_(Diablo_II_Rune_Word)) and [Pattern](https://diablo-archive.fandom.com/wiki/Pattern_(Diablo_II_Rune_Word)) will be enabled with additional changes.
- Other new runewords to come.
- Unclear as to whether all runewords will be ladder only.
## Sets
- Underused sets will be improved, mostly by way of partial and full set bonuses.
  - [Naj's Ancient Vestige](http://classic.battle.net/diablo2exp/items/sets/sets6.shtml#najsancientvestige) and [Bul-Kathos' Children](http://classic.battle.net/diablo2exp/items/sets/sets4.shtml#bulkathoschildren) sets were two examples of improved sets.
- Set item tiers can now be upgraded through the Horadric Cube, similar to how Rare and Unique items can be 'upped'.
- Set changes will be relatively minor, and will not become like Diablo III.
# Areas
- Optional areas are having area levels adjusted, including some to level 85.
  - Arachnid Lair is being set to level 85 as one example.
- You must smash the Compelling Orb to be able to enter the Durance of Hate.
  - This means you must collect all the pieces and craft Khalim's Will to enter the Durance of Hate. You can no longer just ignore the Compelling Orb.
# Q&A
- They have been thinking of changes to Diablo Clone and making it more accessible for everyone, but nothing specific yet.
- No plans to change the character amount limit, but open to changing it in the future.
- No plans to add stash tabs.
- They say they are putting in a great amount of effort into handling the spam bots.
- The character-specific and likely the mercenary changes will reflect in Classic mode.
- No plans to modify underused high level unique items, but open to it in the future.
- No plans for new unique items either.
- No plans for new crafting recipes.
- There are new cube recipes.
  - This may only be the Set upgrading cube recipe.
- They said they will not allow stacking in the player inventory, but they have thought about a special/specific inventory where that is possible, like a currency tab.
- They have thought about loot filters, but they do not want basic loot filters. If they were to implement loot filters, they want it to be of the same or better quality that D2 mods have now (fully customizable scripts). Since that is a lot of work, it is only a consideration for now.
- They will balance PvP skills, and encourage feedback about PvP on the PTR, but they do not want to define a PvP meta themselves.
- The frequency of patches will slow down, but the amount of changes in each patch will increase as a result.
- They are continuously trying to improve load screens. They say it is a very complex issue and hope that it will gradually get better as time goes on as they continue to do more improvements.
- They said they will not add the /players command to online. They do not want to incentivize people to play alone.
- No news on consoles, but Adam Fletcher said he would let console players know of any news as soon as it is available.
- They stated that none of these changes are final, they understand it is the community's game and not theirs, and they encourage using the PTR and giving feedback so they can adjust the game properly to how the community wants.
